---
title: "Week X"
date: 2022-01-08
layout: post
authors: ["Jasmine AY"]
categories: ["Weekly Updates"]
description: Progress update as of Friday January 7.
thumbnail: "https://github.com/Nathan13888/GeniusHour/raw/master/assets/images/IMG_3918.JPG"
image: "https://github.com/Nathan13888/GeniusHour/raw/master/assets/images/IMG_3918.JPG"
---

Ok, full disclosure -- I am currently exhausted for a variety of fun reasons I'm not gonna delve into, so this post is going to be at least a little bit low effort. Also, I have no idea whether or not this is actually the tenth week, because, again, my brain is foggy at the moment.

In any case, here is the weekly (not so weekly at this point) update for our project.

## Video

Given the extension, we have decided to rework some portions of our video that we weren't fully satisfied with. We are currently revising and rewriting the script to include more basic chemistry details, as well as making alterations to fit it better with a 30-minute presentation.

I'm also going to upload separate videos to YouTube of the hat constrction and chemistry debrief, to make that a bit more easily accessible, but that's just going to be a matter of a couple of clicks since I've already got those exported.

## Website

The images in the gallery have been cropped to squares so that they are tiled neatly. Some links have been corrected, and we are currently working through fixing up some of the thumbnails for consistency.

Given the volume of posts, we will also work on cataloguing them better through increased tag specificity and a sitemap post to summarize all of the content and link to relevant posts for increased details. I also need to go through and add notes on posts with outdated information and/or errata, since there are some posts with already updated information (e.g. the experimental design posts) as well as some which have revisions in the works (e.g. the final paper).

There are a couple of posts coming up (although we are trying to limit them for cleanliness). There may or may not be a weekly update next week, but aside from that, I have a post-mortem analysis almost ready for publication, there's a report update in progress, and of course the sitemap post.

## Report

Most of the work on this was actually done over the break, but we've added some extra data tables and research to the paper. This include analysis of HSV in order to provide quantitative evidence for some of our conclusions, as well as some more detailed explanations on the chemical structures of dye compounds. If time allows, I would like to go through and take some data regarding the materials (and maybe revise the material data sheet), but that's not strictly necessary, so it truly depends on how next week goes.

Given the additional data, we are working on condensing the content (I am wont towards the wordy side of things) to make it more easily digestible.

(Counterintuitively, I'd also like to do more secondary research into ink composition, because that still feels a bit unfinished. However, given the difficulty I've already encountered trying to find any information in that field, I find it unlikely that I will manage to scrounge anything together during the busy upcoming week.)

## Colour Cards

Another thing I finished over the break -- all of the colour cards have been made and added to the Google Drive (I stopped uploading at 12:00 after the project was initially due, but ended up finishing making them because I have enough issues with insomnia _without_ having easily finishable work left unfinished.)

## Presentation

We are currently reworking the presentation script; a presentation map and slides have been started, though they have not seen a whole lot of progress.

That's it for today! (Sorry for the dissatisfying conclusion; my back hurts and I need to run.)
